bloodlust-detection-research.md, before:

# Detecting Bloodlust & Sated in WoW Addons

Research notes — February 2026

## Spell IDs

### Bloodlust Buffs (30% haste, 40s duration)

| Spell            | ID     | Source              |
| ---------------- | ------ | ------------------- |
| Bloodlust        | 2825   | Shaman (Horde)      |
| Heroism          | 32182  | Shaman (Alliance)   |
| Time Warp        | 80353  | Mage                |
| Primal Rage      | 264667 | Hunter pet          |
| Fury of the Aspects | 390386 | Evoker           |

### Battle Resurrection — Class Spells

| Spell         | ID     | Class        |
| ------------- | ------ | ------------ |
| Rebirth       | 20484  | Druid        |
| Raise Ally    | 61999  | Death Knight |
| Soulstone     | 20707  | Warlock      |
| Intercession  | 391054 | Paladin      |

During encounters, all class brez spells consume charges from the shared encounter system (tracked via `C_Spell.GetSpellCharges(20484)`). Outside encounters, each class spell has its own independent cooldown (tracked via `C_Spell.GetSpellCooldown(id)` + `IsPlayerSpell(id)`).

### Sated / Lockout Debuffs (10 min duration)

| Debuff                 | ID     | Applied by              |
| ---------------------- | ------ | ----------------------- |
| Sated                  | 57724  | Bloodlust / Primal Rage |
| Exhaustion             | 57723  | Heroism                 |
| Temporal Displacement  | 80354  | Time Warp               |
| Fatigued               | 264689 | Primal Rage (alternate) |
| Exhaustion (Evoker)    | 390435 | Fury of the Aspects     |

## Approach 1: Direct Spell ID Query

The modern API is `C_UnitAuras.GetPlayerAuraBySpellID(spellID)` (added in 10.0). Returns an `AuraData` table or `nil`.

```lua
local SATED_IDS = {57724, 57723, 80354, 264689, 390435}
local LUST_IDS  = {2825, 32182, 80353, 264667, 390386}

local function HasSated()
    for _, id in ipairs(SATED_IDS) do
        local aura = C_UnitAuras.GetPlayerAuraBySpellID(id)
        if aura then return true, aura.expirationTime end
    end
    return false
end

local function HasBloodlust()
    for _, id in ipairs(LUST_IDS) do
        local aura = C_UnitAuras.GetPlayerAuraBySpellID(id)
        if aura then return true, aura.expirationTime end
    end
    return false
end
```

This is the cleanest method and works perfectly outside tainted execution paths.

## Approach 2: Haste Delta Detection

`GetHaste()` returns the player's total haste percentage and is **not** restricted by secret values. A sudden ≥25% jump strongly suggests bloodlust was applied. Haste is multiplicative in WoW, so the actual delta from a 30% lust buff is always ≥30% of your base — a 25% threshold is conservative and avoids false positives from trinket procs.

```lua
local LUST_HASTE_THRESHOLD = 25
local LUST_ASSUMED_DURATION = 40
local lastHaste = 0
local lustHasteExpiration = 0

-- Called on a 1s poll ticker:
local currentHaste = GetHaste()
if not state.lustActive then
    if lustHasteExpiration > 0 and GetTime() < lustHasteExpiration then
        -- Previously inferred via haste, still within expected duration
        state.lustActive = true
        state.lustExpiration = lustHasteExpiration
        state.lustDuration = LUST_ASSUMED_DURATION
    elseif lastHaste > 0
           and (currentHaste - lastHaste) >= LUST_HASTE_THRESHOLD then
        -- Large haste spike — infer lust activation
        lustHasteExpiration = GetTime() + LUST_ASSUMED_DURATION
        state.lustActive = true
        state.lustExpiration = lustHasteExpiration
        state.lustDuration = LUST_ASSUMED_DURATION
    end
else
    -- Aura API confirmed lust; clear haste inference
    lustHasteExpiration = 0
end
lastHaste = currentHaste
```

**Pros:** Not affected by secret value restrictions. Self-clears when aura API resumes working.

**Cons:** Heuristic — cannot detect sated (no haste change). Expiration time is estimated (assumes 40s). Requires polling (not event-driven).

## Approach 3: Layered Detection (PulseCheck's Solution for 12.0+)

Three detection layers, checked in priority order:

1. **Aura API** — `C_UnitAuras.GetPlayerAuraBySpellID` for all known lust/sated spell IDs. Fastest and most accurate when it works.
2. **Time-based expiration validation** (Approach 4) — if a buff/debuff was previously detected and hasn't expired, keep it active even if the API returns nil. Handles both combat taint and zone transitions.
3. **Haste delta** (Approach 2) — `GetHaste()` is unrestricted; a ≥25% spike infers lust activation with a 40s estimated timer. Handles the case where the aura API is blocked from the start and lust is never detected via spell IDs.

All three run inside `UpdateBloodlustState()`, called both by `UNIT_AURA` events (fast path) and a 1s `C_Timer.NewTicker` (safety net in instanced content).

~~Optionally use `COMBAT_LOG_EVENT_UNFILTERED` with `SPELL_AURA_APPLIED`~~ — **this is no longer viable in 12.0**. `COMBAT_LOG_EVENT_UNFILTERED` is a protected event; registering for it triggers `ADDON_ACTION_FORBIDDEN`.

## Approach 4: Time-Based Expiration Validation

When the aura API returns nil for a buff/debuff that was previously active, we can't trust the transition. This happens during combat (secret values / taint) and zone transitions (loading screens). Compare `GetTime()` against the previously saved expiration:

```lua
-- Applied to both lust and sated in UpdateBloodlustState():
if oldLustActive and not state.lustActive
   and oldLustExpiration > 0 and GetTime() < oldLustExpiration then
    state.lustActive = true
    state.lustExpiration = oldLustExpiration
    state.lustDuration = oldLustDuration
end

if oldSated and not state.sated
   and oldSatedExpiration > 0 and GetTime() < oldSatedExpiration then
    state.sated = true
    state.satedExpiration = oldSatedExpiration
    state.satedDuration = oldSatedDuration
end
```

**How it works:** The addon captures `expirationTime` from the aura API when it's working. If the API subsequently returns nil, the addon checks whether `GetTime()` has actually reached the saved expiration. If not, the buff/debuff is still active — the nil was an API failure, not a real state change.

**Pros:** No protected event registration, no heuristics, deterministic. Covers both combat taint and zone transitions.

**Cons:** If a buff is dispelled early, the addon won't detect the removal until the original timer expires or the aura API starts returning data again.

**Cons:** If the debuff is dispelled early during combat, the addon won't detect the removal until the original timer expires or combat ends.

### Checking if auras are restricted

```lua
-- 12.0+ API to check if a spell's aura data is secret
if C_Secrets and C_Secrets.ShouldSpellAuraBeSecret then
    local isSecret = C_Secrets.ShouldSpellAuraBeSecret(57724)
    -- If true, fall back to timer or haste-delta approach
end
```

## 12.0 (Midnight) Secret Values Context

Patch 12.0 introduced "secret values" — aura and cooldown fields can be marked protected on tainted execution paths. This affects `C_UnitAuras`, `C_Spell`, and `C_ActionBar` APIs.

- Bloodlust/sated spell IDs are **not explicitly confirmed whitelisted** as of this writing
- Blizzard is whitelisting spells on a case-by-case basis (devs can request additions)
- `C_Secrets.ShouldSpellAuraBeSecret()` and `C_Secrets.ShouldUnitAuraInstanceBeSecret()` let addons check restriction status at runtime
- Traditional `UNIT_AURA` event registration can cause taint in restricted contexts — polling is safer
- `COMBAT_LOG_EVENT_UNFILTERED` is a **protected event** — registering for it triggers `ADDON_ACTION_FORBIDDEN`; do not use CLEU as a fallback detection path

## Key APIs

| API | Purpose |
| --- | ------- |
| `C_UnitAuras.GetPlayerAuraBySpellID(id)` | Check for a specific aura on the player by spell ID |
| `AuraUtil.ForEachAura(unit, filter, max, func)` | Iterate all auras on a unit |
| `AuraUtil.FindAuraByName(name, unit)` | Find aura by name (localized — fragile) |
| `GetHaste()` | Player's current haste % (unrestricted) |
| `C_Secrets.ShouldSpellAuraBeSecret(id)` | Check if aura data is protected (12.0+) |
| `UNIT_AURA` event | Fires on aura gain/loss (may taint in 12.0+) |
| `COMBAT_LOG_EVENT_UNFILTERED` | **Protected in 12.0** — cannot be registered by addons |
| `InCombatLockdown()` | Check if player is in combat (tainted execution path) |

## References

- [Warcraft Wiki: C_UnitAuras.GetPlayerAuraBySpellID](https://warcraft.wiki.gg/wiki/API_C_UnitAuras.GetPlayerAuraBySpellID)
- [Warcraft Wiki: UNIT_AURA](https://warcraft.wiki.gg/wiki/UNIT_AURA)
- [Warcraft Wiki: Patch 12.0.0 API Changes](https://warcraft.wiki.gg/wiki/Patch_12.0.0/API_changes)
- [Wowhead: Bloodlust (2825)](https://www.wowhead.com/spell=2825/bloodlust)
- [Wowhead: Sated (57724)](https://www.wowhead.com/spell=57724/sated)
- [Icy Veins: Blizzard Relaxing Addon Limitations in Midnight](https://www.icy-veins.com/wow/news/blizzard-relaxing-more-addon-limitations-in-midnight/)
- [Lust Tracker addon (CurseForge)](https://www.curseforge.com/wow/addons/lust-tracker)
- [Wowpedia: Bloodlust effect](https://wowpedia.fandom.com/wiki/Bloodlust_effect)

Commit message:

Harden haste-delta fallback and fix review findings
- Gate haste-delta lust inference behind useAuraFallback
- Switch from absolute threshold (25pp) to multiplicative (1.25×)
- Reset haste baseline on instance exit to prevent stale inference
- Treat GetSpellCooldown nil as unknown, not off-cooldown
- Clear raidSated on encounter end for immediate UI update
- Fix duplicate Cons in research doc, clarify sated is non-dispellable

bloodlust-detection-research.md, after:

# Detecting Bloodlust & Sated in WoW Addons

Research notes — February 2026

## Spell IDs

### Bloodlust Buffs (30% haste, 40s duration)

| Spell            | ID     | Source              |
| ---------------- | ------ | ------------------- |
| Bloodlust        | 2825   | Shaman (Horde)      |
| Heroism          | 32182  | Shaman (Alliance)   |
| Time Warp        | 80353  | Mage                |
| Primal Rage      | 264667 | Hunter pet          |
| Fury of the Aspects | 390386 | Evoker           |

### Battle Resurrection — Class Spells

| Spell         | ID     | Class        |
| ------------- | ------ | ------------ |
| Rebirth       | 20484  | Druid        |
| Raise Ally    | 61999  | Death Knight |
| Soulstone     | 20707  | Warlock      |
| Intercession  | 391054 | Paladin      |

During encounters, all class brez spells consume charges from the shared encounter system (tracked via `C_Spell.GetSpellCharges(20484)`). Outside encounters, each class spell has its own independent cooldown (tracked via `C_Spell.GetSpellCooldown(id)` + `IsPlayerSpell(id)`).

### Sated / Lockout Debuffs (10 min duration)

| Debuff                 | ID     | Applied by              |
| ---------------------- | ------ | ----------------------- |
| Sated                  | 57724  | Bloodlust / Primal Rage |
| Exhaustion             | 57723  | Heroism                 |
| Temporal Displacement  | 80354  | Time Warp               |
| Fatigued               | 264689 | Primal Rage (alternate) |
| Exhaustion (Evoker)    | 390435 | Fury of the Aspects     |

## Approach 1: Direct Spell ID Query

The modern API is `C_UnitAuras.GetPlayerAuraBySpellID(spellID)` (added in 10.0). Returns an `AuraData` table or `nil`.

```lua
local SATED_IDS = {57724, 57723, 80354, 264689, 390435}
local LUST_IDS  = {2825, 32182, 80353, 264667, 390386}

local function HasSated()
    for _, id in ipairs(SATED_IDS) do
        local aura = C_UnitAuras.GetPlayerAuraBySpellID(id)
        if aura then return true, aura.expirationTime end
    end
    return false
end

local function HasBloodlust()
    for _, id in ipairs(LUST_IDS) do
        local aura = C_UnitAuras.GetPlayerAuraBySpellID(id)
        if aura then return true, aura.expirationTime end
    end
    return false
end
```

This is the cleanest method and works perfectly outside tainted execution paths.

## Approach 2: Haste Delta Detection

`GetHaste()` returns the player's total haste percentage and is **not** restricted by secret values. A 25% *multiplicative* increase (`currentHaste > lastHaste * 1.25`) strongly suggests bloodlust was applied. Since WoW haste stacks multiplicatively, the 30% lust buff always produces at least a 30% scaling factor — well above the 25% threshold. Single trinket procs (typically 15-20% multiplicative) cannot reach it alone. Only fires when `useAuraFallback` is true (aura API confirmed blocked by secret values).

```lua
local LUST_HASTE_MULTIPLIER = 1.25
local LUST_ASSUMED_DURATION = 40
local lastHaste = 0
local lustHasteExpiration = 0

-- Called on a 1s poll ticker (only when useAuraFallback is true):
local currentHaste = GetHaste()
if not state.lustActive then
    if lustHasteExpiration > 0 and GetTime() < lustHasteExpiration then
        -- Previously inferred via haste, still within expected duration
        state.lustActive = true
        state.lustExpiration = lustHasteExpiration
        state.lustDuration = LUST_ASSUMED_DURATION
    elseif useAuraFallback and lastHaste > 0
           and currentHaste > lastHaste * LUST_HASTE_MULTIPLIER then
        -- Large haste spike while aura API blocked — infer lust
        lustHasteExpiration = GetTime() + LUST_ASSUMED_DURATION
        state.lustActive = true
        state.lustExpiration = lustHasteExpiration
        state.lustDuration = LUST_ASSUMED_DURATION
    end
else
    -- Aura API confirmed lust; clear haste inference
    lustHasteExpiration = 0
end
lastHaste = currentHaste
```

**Pros:** Not affected by secret value restrictions. Self-clears when aura API resumes working.

**Cons:** Heuristic — cannot detect sated (no haste change). Expiration time is estimated (assumes 40s). Requires polling (not event-driven).

## Approach 3: Layered Detection (PulseCheck's Solution for 12.0+)

Three detection layers, checked in priority order:

1. **Aura API** — `C_UnitAuras.GetPlayerAuraBySpellID` for all known lust/sated spell IDs. Fastest and most accurate when it works.
2. **Time-based expiration validation** (Approach 4) — if a buff/debuff was previously detected and hasn't expired, keep it active even if the API returns nil. Handles both combat taint and zone transitions.
3. **Haste delta** (Approach 2) — `GetHaste()` is unrestricted; a ≥25% spike infers lust activation with a 40s estimated timer. Handles the case where the aura API is blocked from the start and lust is never detected via spell IDs.

All three run inside `UpdateBloodlustState()`, called both by `UNIT_AURA` events (fast path) and a 1s `C_Timer.NewTicker` (safety net in instanced content).

~~Optionally use `COMBAT_LOG_EVENT_UNFILTERED` with `SPELL_AURA_APPLIED`~~ — **this is no longer viable in 12.0**. `COMBAT_LOG_EVENT_UNFILTERED` is a protected event; registering for it triggers `ADDON_ACTION_FORBIDDEN`.

## Approach 4: Time-Based Expiration Validation

When the aura API returns nil for a buff/debuff that was previously active, we can't trust the transition. This happens during combat (secret values / taint) and zone transitions (loading screens). Compare `GetTime()` against the previously saved expiration:

```lua
-- Applied to both lust and sated in UpdateBloodlustState():
if oldLustActive and not state.lustActive
   and oldLustExpiration > 0 and GetTime() < oldLustExpiration then
    state.lustActive = true
    state.lustExpiration = oldLustExpiration
    state.lustDuration = oldLustDuration
end

if oldSated and not state.sated
   and oldSatedExpiration > 0 and GetTime() < oldSatedExpiration then
    state.sated = true
    state.satedExpiration = oldSatedExpiration
    state.satedDuration = oldSatedDuration
end
```

**How it works:** The addon captures `expirationTime` from the aura API when it's working. If the API subsequently returns nil, the addon checks whether `GetTime()` has actually reached the saved expiration. If not, the buff/debuff is still active — the nil was an API failure, not a real state change.

**Pros:** No protected event registration, no heuristics, deterministic. Covers both combat taint and zone transitions.

**Cons:** If a lust buff is removed early (e.g., Soothe), the addon won't detect the removal until the original timer expires or the aura API starts returning data again. Sated debuffs cannot be dispelled and persist through death — only encounter reset clears them — so the time-based override is safe for sated.

### Checking if auras are restricted

```lua
-- 12.0+ API to check if a spell's aura data is secret
if C_Secrets and C_Secrets.ShouldSpellAuraBeSecret then
    local isSecret = C_Secrets.ShouldSpellAuraBeSecret(57724)
    -- If true, fall back to timer or haste-delta approach
end
```

## 12.0 (Midnight) Secret Values Context

Patch 12.0 introduced "secret values" — aura and cooldown fields can be marked protected on tainted execution paths. This affects `C_UnitAuras`, `C_Spell`, and `C_ActionBar` APIs.

- Bloodlust/sated spell IDs are **not explicitly confirmed whitelisted** as of this writing
- Blizzard is whitelisting spells on a case-by-case basis (devs can request additions)
- `C_Secrets.ShouldSpellAuraBeSecret()` and `C_Secrets.ShouldUnitAuraInstanceBeSecret()` let addons check restriction status at runtime
- Traditional `UNIT_AURA` event registration can cause taint in restricted contexts — polling is safer
- `COMBAT_LOG_EVENT_UNFILTERED` is a **protected event** — registering for it triggers `ADDON_ACTION_FORBIDDEN`; do not use CLEU as a fallback detection path

## Key APIs

| API | Purpose |
| --- | ------- |
| `C_UnitAuras.GetPlayerAuraBySpellID(id)` | Check for a specific aura on the player by spell ID |
| `AuraUtil.ForEachAura(unit, filter, max, func)` | Iterate all auras on a unit |
| `AuraUtil.FindAuraByName(name, unit)` | Find aura by name (localized — fragile) |
| `GetHaste()` | Player's current haste % (unrestricted) |
| `C_Secrets.ShouldSpellAuraBeSecret(id)` | Check if aura data is protected (12.0+) |
| `UNIT_AURA` event | Fires on aura gain/loss (may taint in 12.0+) |
| `COMBAT_LOG_EVENT_UNFILTERED` | **Protected in 12.0** — cannot be registered by addons |
| `InCombatLockdown()` | Check if player is in combat (tainted execution path) |

## References

- [Warcraft Wiki: C_UnitAuras.GetPlayerAuraBySpellID](https://warcraft.wiki.gg/wiki/API_C_UnitAuras.GetPlayerAuraBySpellID)
- [Warcraft Wiki: UNIT_AURA](https://warcraft.wiki.gg/wiki/UNIT_AURA)
- [Warcraft Wiki: Patch 12.0.0 API Changes](https://warcraft.wiki.gg/wiki/Patch_12.0.0/API_changes)
- [Wowhead: Bloodlust (2825)](https://www.wowhead.com/spell=2825/bloodlust)
- [Wowhead: Sated (57724)](https://www.wowhead.com/spell=57724/sated)
- [Icy Veins: Blizzard Relaxing Addon Limitations in Midnight](https://www.icy-veins.com/wow/news/blizzard-relaxing-more-addon-limitations-in-midnight/)
- [Lust Tracker addon (CurseForge)](https://www.curseforge.com/wow/addons/lust-tracker)
- [Wowpedia: Bloodlust effect](https://wowpedia.fandom.com/wiki/Bloodlust_effect)
